- Spring forward, fall
back could be no more.
Daylight Saving Time in
the US could be permanent.
Most Americans say they
are tired of moving
the clocks twice a year and
we should just pick one.
But did the government
pick the wrong one?
This is a Gaia News Breakdown.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The United States has a
long and complicated history
with Daylight Saving Time.
You might know it better
as "spring forward."
First enacted in 1918 during
World War I as wartime,
the measure was supposed
to give more daylight
during working hours.
Meantime, according to Michael
Downing, the author of "Spring
Forward--
The Annual Madness of Daylight
Saving Time," the Chamber
of Commerce also liked it as
workers with more daylight
after work were more likely
to stop, shop, and spend money
on their way home.
It was repealed only
to be brought back
during World War II, again, more
daylight during working hours.
Post World War II, there
was a chaotic period
where states picked whatever
time standard they wanted.
Until 1966, when
the Uniform Time Act
made six months of Standard
Time and six months
of Daylight Saving Time,
which brings us to today.
People have different opinions
on Daylight Saving Time,
but most Americans want
the clock changing gone.
A 2019 AP poll shows
71% of Americans
would like to quit
changing the clocks twice
per year versus 28% who want
to keep it the way it is.
Now, the US Senate
has just passed
a measure that would again make
Daylight Saving Time permanent.
Some people like sunlight
later in the evening,
especially in the summer.
But many, including medical
professionals and safety
experts, argue that
springing forward
is hazardous to your health.
Beth Ann Malow, Professor
of Neurology and Pediatrics
at Vanderbilt University
writes in "Science Alert,"
"Moving the clocks forward
is not just an inconvenience.
It is a shock to the
human body and nature."
She and her co-authors
reviewed evidence
linked between Daylight Saving
Time and increased strokes,
heart attacks, and
teen sleep deprivation.
She explains that falling
back to Standard Time
is quote, "relatively benign."
But by artificially
moving time forward,
it messes with our
internal circadian rhythm,
our internal natural clock.
Also, morning sunlight wakes
us up and improves alertness.
She continues, "exposure to
light later into the evening
delays the brain's
release of melatonin,
the hormone that
promotes drowsiness.
This can interfere
with sleep and cause
us to sleep less
overall, and the effect
can last even after
most people adjust
to losing an hour of sleep at
the start of Daylight Saving
Time."
If this isn't enough against
Daylight Saving Time,
then we should be reminded that
the US tried this in the 1970s.
And it failed.
President Richard Nixon signed
into law permanent Daylight
Saving Time.
At first, it was widely popular.
But its popularity
dropped precipitously
after Americans had to deal
with month after month of pitch
black mornings.
It was reversed just
16 months later.
So, now after everything
we have learned
and everything we know after
100 years of this experiment,
will we go with natural
circadian Standard Time
or Daylight Saving Time?
The Senate approved the Sunshine
Protection Act unanimously.
The measure will move to the
House of Representatives,
where its future is uncertain.
For a new perspective, this
is a Gaia News Breakdown.